In this lecture I want to give you an overview of SEO for local businesses and really explain why as
CEO for local businesses is different than it is to normal Web sites online.
So Google displays the search results for local businesses differently for a couple of simple key reasons
and the first of those being is is the restaurant is a local business really close to where I am.
They really want to only display most relevant search results and a key factor in our relevancy is proximity
is it actually close to where I'm searching from.
If not you know I'm not going to be interested in it so Googling away to identify location of local
businesses very easily and a way to systematize that so then they can display the search results as
accurately as possible.
So as well as location and other key consideration is is the information mobile friendly.
A lot of people who are making searches for local businesses are doing so on their mobiles and already
we know that searches performed on mobiles have surpassed us top.
So they need a way in order to get all the most important information.
Categorize it an easy display is on mobile devices.
So the way that Google has solved that problem and really get the location of the all of the local business
categorize and also make sure its mobile friendly is to create what they've called the Google local
park.
And what you can see here is is the local pocket's displayed at the top of the search results.
When I type in a keyword like this and you can see these three different results on how businesses really
sign up and get shown in this Google local park because firstly by creating a google my business account
and then really by building up reviews.
So we talked about earlier in the course of the two steps for us SEO optimization and authority.
Those are still the two steps to a.
The difference being for local businesses that you build authority by really getting more reviews instead
of backings.
Bottlings have less importance.
What is really important is to build up reviews and that is the way you build authority for your business
locally and the way that you are going to rise and be displayed in his Google local park for a particular
keyword.
So as well as ranking for a keyword using the google my business profile its very important that she
ran for your brand name as well so you can see are typed in here a name of in the burger restaurants
who are looking at and you can see that they've done very well to dominate the search results for their
brand name.
So they've got their Web site here.
They've got to google my business profile here as well displayed in the sidebar.
They've also got their Facebook Yelp and Trip Advisor profiles all set up.
So it's important not only to optimize your web site and your google my business profile but also build
these profiles on these or their local business directories and also build up reviews on those as well
.
Each Facebook Yelp TripAdvisor etc. they all have slightly different markets.
People come to those platforms to do slightly different things.
And so it's important that you set up all of those and build reviews on all of those to help generate
more exposure and traffic and sales for your local business.
So that's an overview of SEO for local businesses.
Again the key takeaways are that mobile friendliness on your Web site is of extreme importance and also
that you need to set up these local business profiles and build up reviews on those profiles.
That's how you really build that already.
Instead of links links are still important.
But really reviews on the local business profiles are more important if you want to learn more about
local SEO I've got a course on that which includes a 14 point checklist to make sure you really optimize
your local business for the search results.
Or if you want to optimize it for clients I think this will be a great working document for you.
So there's a discounted link in the final lecture.
If you want to check that.
OK so I hope you enjoy that lecture and let's get on to the next one.